io-sim and io-sim-classes changes towards publication on Hackage (#2580)
input-output-hk/ouroboros-network: io-sim-classes/README.md

This package provides a monad class hierarchy which is an interface for both
[io-sim](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/io-sim) and
[IO](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/base-4.14.0.0/docs/GHC-IO.html#t:IO)
monads.  It was developed with the following constraints in mind:

* be a drop in replacement for `IO` monad;
* `IO` instances does not alter its original semantics, providing a shallow
  bindings to `async`, `base`, `stm` and `exception` packages;
* provide zero cost abstractions.

There are a few departures from this principles, usually visible in type
signature, which we discuss in this document.  When using `IO`, for most of the
interfaces, `GHC` can optimise away the provided abstractions with `-o1`
optimisation level.

## Exception Class Hierarchy

This package provides an alternative class hierarchy giving access to
exceptions api.  The `exception` package class hierarchy is also supported by
`io-sim`, so you can also use either one.

 The `MonadThrow` defined in this package allows to work with exceptions
without having explicit access to `catch` or `mask`.  It only provides access
to `throwIO`, `bracket`, `bracket_` and `finally`.  `MonadCatch` class provides

> api which allows to work with exceptions, e.g. `catch` or `bracketOnError`, and

Reviewer: > `MonadCatch` class provides api which allows to work with exceptions,

That doesn't sound very fluent. I'm not a native speaker, but I'd go for something like "The `MonadCatch` class allows exceptions to be caught or handled".

`MonadMask` gives access to low level `mask` and friends.   This division makes

> code review process somewhat easier.  Using only `MonadThrow` constraint the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the code review process somewhat easier.  By using only the `MonadThrow` constraint, the
```

reviewer can be sure that no low level exception api is used, which usually

> requires more care, and still allows to do resource handling right.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
requires more care, and still allows you to do resource handling right.
```

## Time and Timer APIs

> We follow the tradition of splitting time into two units of measures: as unit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We follow the tradition of splitting time into two units of measure: a unit
```

> of time differences, which has monoidal nature and as a unit of time which is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of time differences, which has monoidal nature, and a unit of time which is
```

a G-set for the former.  We use
[DiffTime](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/time-1.10/docs/Data-Time-Clock.html#t:DiffTime)

> for the former and a newtype wrapper `Time` for the later (provided for this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for the former and a newtype wrapper `Time` for the later (provided by this
```

package).  `DiffTime` is used consistently across all the type classes which is
one of the few departures from the `base` interface.  One example is

> [threadDelay](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/io-sim-classes/docs/Control-Monad-Class-MonadTimer.html#v:threadDela)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[threadDelay](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/io-sim-classes/docs/Control-Monad-Class-MonadTimer.html#v:threadDelay)
```

(provided by `MonadDelay`) which is using `DiffTime` (being in seconds) rather

> than passing microseconds as an `Int` - as it is done by `base` package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
than passing microseconds as an `Int` - as in the `base` package.
```

> Provided `threadDelay` function is safely against overflows, this is especially

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The provide `threadDelay` function is safe against overflows, this is especially
```

> important on `32`-bit architectures (with the original `base`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
important on 32-bit architectures (with the original `base`
```

> approach on 32-architectures, the maximal delay is slightly more than `30`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
approach on 32-bit architectures, the maximal delay is slightly more than `30`
```

minutes).

> `MonadTimer` class provides a unified interface to `GHC` event manager api as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `MonadTimer` class provides a unified interface to the `GHC` event manager API as
```

defined in
[GHC.Event](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/base/docs/GHC-Event.html).  We
expose instances also for architectures which do not provide this `GHC`
interface, like `Windows` or `GHCJS`.

> A good example of usage of this interface is an implementation of platform
> independent (Windows!) and reliable implementation of
> [timeout](https://github.com/input-output-hk/ouroboros-network/blob/master/network-mux/src/Network/Mux/Timeout.hs#L225)
> function (which lives outside of this package).  Note that since it is using

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A good example of usage of this interface is the platform-independent (Windows!) and reliable implementation of the
[timeout](https://github.com/input-output-hk/ouroboros-network/blob/master/network-mux/src/Network/Mux/Timeout.hs#L225)
function (which lives outside of this package).  Note that since it is using
```

> only type classes constraints from this package it also works in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
only type class constraints from this package it also works in
```

[IOSim](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/io-sim/docs/Control-Monad-IOSim.html#t:IOSim)
monad.

## Software Transactional Memory API

> We provide two interfaces to `stm` api: lazy and strict one.  The strict

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We provide two interfaces to the `stm` API: a lazy and a strict one.  The strict
```

interface provides a novel way of testing / eliminating space-leaks which might
lurk in `stm` shared mutable variables.  This together with an interface build
on top of
[ghc-heap](https://gitlab.haskell.org/ghc/ghc/-/tree/master/libraries/ghc-heap)
was successfully used to eliminate such bugs in a large system.  We strongly

> recommend to use `Control.Monad.Class.MonadSTM.Strict`.  It exposes the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
recommend the use `Control.Monad.Class.MonadSTM.Strict`.  It exposes the
```

[MonadSTM](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/io-sim-classes/docs/Control-Monad-Class-MonadSTM.html#t:MonadSTM)
interface and gives access to
[StrictTVar](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/io-sim-classes/docs/Control-Monad-Class-MonadSTM-Strict.html#t:StrictTVar)'s
in place of non-strict
[TVar](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/io-sim-classes/docs/Control-Monad-Class-MonadSTM.html#t:TVar)'s.

## Threads API

> We draw a line between `base` api and `async` api.  The former one is provided

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We draw a line between the `base` API and the `async` API.  The former is provided
```

by
[MonadFork](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/io-sim-classes/docs/Control-Monad-Class-MonadFork.html#t:MonadFork)

> the latter is by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the latter by
```

[MonadAsync](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/io-sim-classes/docs/Control-Monad-Class-MonadFork.html#t:MonadAsync).

> Both are shallow abstractions around APIs exposed by `base` and `async`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both are shallow abstractions around APIs exposed by the `base` and `async`
```

packages.

## Some other APIs

* [MonadEventlog](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/io-sim-classes/docs/Control-Monad-Class-MonadEventlog.html#t:MonadEventlog):

>   provides api to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  provides an API to the
```
